
# Introdcution

This Python script leverages the Boto3 library to interact with AWS services, including AWS CloudWatch, ComputeOptimizer, ECS, RDS, EC2, and Lambda. The primary objective is to retrieve CPU and memory utilization metrics for ECS cluster,RDS instance, EC2 instance, and lambda services over the last 30 days. The collected metrics are then organized and written to a CSV file for further analysis.

**Features:**
- Extract CPU metric data from all EC2 instances of the selected region.
- Extract Memory metric data from all Lambda functions of the selected region.
- Extract CPU metric data from all RDS instances of the selected region.
- Extract CPU and Memory metric data from all ECS instances of the selected region.
- Customize parameters: period, days and filename.
- Save output to csv file.

### Installation
This application requires Python 3.x or above. If you don't have Python installed, please download it from here https://www.python.org/downloads/.

Install packages:
- Boto3 library
- Pandas library
- AWS CLI configured with necessary permissions.

```
 pip install boto3
 pip install Pandas

```
Install AWS CLI:

`pip install awscli`

Configure the [AWS CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html):

`aws configure`

For usage help run using CloudWatch:

To extract EC2 instances CPU metrics, run:

`python ec2_instance.py`

This will create the **EC2_metrics.csv** file.

To extract RDS instances CPU metrics, run:

`python rds.py`

This will create the **RDS_metrics.csv** file.

To extract RDS instances CPU and Memory metrics, run:

`python ecs_cluster.py`

This will create the **ECS_metrics.csv** file.

For usage help run using ComputeOptimizer:
 
### Documentation files

Project Root (Compute_Optimizer)
|
|-- reportlambdaComputeOptData.sh
|-- reportEC2ComputeOptData.sh
|
|-- bin
|   |-- reportlambdaComputeOptData.py
|   |-- reportEC2ComputeOptData.py
|
|-- output
|   |-- (CSV files generated by the scripts)

## Shell scripts 

This shell script is responsible for generating a JSON file containing Lambda compute optimization data and EC2 compute optimization data. The generated JSON file is later parsed by a Python script (`reportlambdaComputeOptData.py`)and (`reportEC2ComputeOptData.py`) to produce a CSV file.

To extract EC2 instances CPU metrics, run:
`./reportEC2ComputeOptData.sh <account_number> <region>`

To extract Lambda functions Memory metrics, run:
`./reportlambdaComputeOptData.sh <account_number> <region>`
